Intro Examples

1-4
Drones for Info/Journalism

With a Nintendo Wii and hours of spare time, Jordi Munoz built his own drone. 

Munoz, who was unemployed at the time, modified a small helicopter to fly it using the Wii’s controller. 

Five years later, Munoz was the CEO of 3D Robotics, a San Francisco firm that sells drones to hobbyists.  Munoz is not alone in finding ways to increase the presence of drones.

http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/mar/14/out-of-hobby-class-drones-lifting-off-for-personal/?page=all#pagebreak




Over the past several years, a number of industries have utilized drones as another means to gather information.

In December of 2011, a drone was used to gather footage of a mass protest against President Vladmir Putin. In a pro-democracy protest 25,000 people gathered in Bolotnaya Square in Moscow. The footage showed the true size of the protest, something that could not be seen on foot. 

[link to video]

Protestors thought the small quadracopter was a UFO at the time, however.

In the United States, a much cheaper drone was used during the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York City. The drone, called the Occucoptor, was used to monitor the police. Tim Pool used a Parrot AR drone to set up a video feed online. The Parrot AR drone works with iOS devices, and has a very simple interface. 




Reeling from damages from Hurricane Sandy, some utility companies are looking into drones as another means of gathering information. Small drones could fly into dangerous areas and gather information about the damages. These new drones would simply work with existing helicopters to fly to remote areas. In addition to accessing destruction, drones can be used to monitor the functionality of utilities.

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-24/sandy-legacy-has-utilities-opening-wallets-for-drones.html

[photo]

Some have called for drones to facilitate reporting during storms like Sandy. However, current drones wouldn’t be able to fly in the winds and rains of a storm. In a mild breeze, most drones have problems flying smoothly. 

Nick Jennings, ???,  is currently developing software for a “disaster drone” that could aid rescue efforts in the event of an emergency. His software aims to answer questions that rescue workers would have such as the stability of a ruined building. 

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-18581883

[photos]


Additionally, drones can be used as an additional means of surveillance.  An animal rights group in Pennsylvania purchased an octocopter to monitor pigeon shoots at Wing Pointe, a commercial hunting ground. 

The octocoper was equipped with a $4,000 camera that could record the hunting activity. On Nov. 18, the drone was shot down by pigeon hunters.

SHARK, Showing Kindness and Respect to Animals, illuminates a potential problem for drones: people are going to shoot them down. 




The paparazzi have also voiced their interest in using drones. Natrually, this has drawn criticism from privacy advocates. Even though drones would be useful to pry on some situations— most deem it unethical. 

In November of 2012, a rumor spread about TMZ trying to obtain a permit from the FAA to use drones. Both TMZ and the FAA refuted the rumor, saying that TMZ did not apply for a license to fly. 

Until solid ethical guidelines are set, it is unlikely that most paparazzi would be willing to risk lawsuits by pursuing drones.  
